.\" Manpage for enkode.
.\" Contact by.cmsc@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH enkode 1 "30 August 2024" "7.1 alpha" "Executable bash script"
.SH NAME
.B enkode
\- generate an analytical data score from a sound file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B enkode
[OPTION(S)[ \fIvalue\fR|=\fIvalue\fR]] sound_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The command line
.B enkode
interprets a sound file in terms of numeric score devoted to the analysis or music synthesis. This script has been designed more specifically for undetermined pitch percussive music.
.RS
.RE
Thus,
.B enkode
displays a sequence of events which are defined for each line by the duration of the event, the value of the first partial as f0, the centroid, the loudness and the low pass filtered event loudness.
.RS
.RE
The audio formats recognised are listed on the
.B praat
manual.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
The three following options take as argument a number or a list of five numbers allowing to set the recursive discrimination as coefficient.
.RE
Then the number of classes is function of the coefficient of recursivity (coeff) according to a positive number as:
.RS
.RS
integer = - 1 + 2^coeff;
.RE
.RS
float = 2^(floor coeff).
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BR \-I " " \fInum\fR|\fIlist\fR ", " \-\-as\-int =\fInum\fR|\fIlist\fR " "
Interpret the analysis in term of class number according to the discrimination as argument.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-G " " \fInum\fR|\fIlist\fR ", " \-\-as\-gc =\fInum\fR|\fIlist\fR " "
Convert the previous result to gray code.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-T " " \fInum\fR|\fIlist\fR ", " \-\-as\-tc =\fInum\fR|\fIlist\fR " "
Convert the previous result to thrifty code.
.RE
.TP
Profile streamline settings:
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-loudness\-diff\-thres =\fInumber\fR " "
Set the value of loudness in sone units between two potential events to validate discrimination.
.RE
.RS
The default value is the mean value of the variations peak/valley and valley/peak.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-loudness\-min\-thres =\fInumber\fR " "
Set the minimal value of loudness applied to peaks in sone units to validate a potential event.
.RE
.RS
The default value is the minimum value of a peak after the \-\-loudness\-diff\-thres filtering.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-loudness\-max\-thres =\fInumber\fR " "
Set the maximal value of loudness applied to valleys in sone units to validate a potential event.
.RE
.RS
The default value is the maximum value of a valley after the \-\-loudness\-min\-thres filtering.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-as\-event
Return only the analysis for one single event defined by the input sound file.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-par
Allow to display some preliminary values for the segmentation in order to adjust some of the previous parameters if needed.
.RE
.TP
Analysis settings (note that the default value of the following options is inside curly bracket):
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-min\-duration =\fInumber\fR " " {0.05}
Set the minimal value of an event duration to be retained as an event. Any event below this duration will be merged with its successor.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-max\-duration =\fInumber\fR " " {10}
Set the maximal value of an event duration to be retained as an event. If an event exceed this value, the tail of this event will be truncated.
.TP
.BR \-\-cutoff\-frequency =\fInumber\fR " " {100}
Set the cut off frequency of the low pass filter for bass discrimination.
.TP
.BR \-\-smooth\-frequency =\fInumber\fR " " {500}
Set the bandwidth frequency for cepstral smoothing.
.TP
.BR \-\-time\-step =\fInumber\fR " " {0.01}
Set the analysis time step.
.RE
.TP
Additional options:
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-textgrid =\fIpath\fR " "
Allow to use your own textgrid.
.RE
.RS
The segmentation has to be on the first tier of the textgrid and named as ordered integers from 1 until the total number of events.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-O " " \fIpath\fR ", " \-\-outdir =\fIpath\fR " "
Write the output as OUTDIR in the path directory argument. If the argument is set to \-o without argument, then OUTDIR = '~/Documents/enkode/<sampleName>/'.
.RE
.P
Options for interpreting audio file according to the following optional analysis:
.RE
.TP
.BR \-s 
Return the spectrum analysis done on 116 bins from 0 to 5000 Hz as re(Pa/Hz).
.RE
.TP
.BR \-r
This is a kind of roughness indicator done from the peaks of the loudness profile of the event in order to detect emergent frequency, which has to be interpreted in context.
.RE
.RS
Note that the analysis is done according to the value of the \-\-time\-step multiply by a given factor set with the option:
.RE
.RS
.BR \-\-time\-fact=\fInumber\fR " " 
{0.1} 
.RE
.RS
Also, an optional window value for smoothing loudness profile is done by the mean of this window applied on successive values in time according to the time step multiply by the time factor, and can bet set with the option:
.RE
.RS
.BR \-\-smooth\-profile=\fIinteger\fR " " 
{3} 
.RE
.RS
Return the frequency, the reliability of this frequency, the relative loudness of this frequency, the reliability of this loudness, and the intensity of the event in dB. 
.RE
.RS
The reliability is the standard deviation of the normalised values subtracted to one.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.BR praat " - "
http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/
.RE
.BR sbcl "  - "
http://www.sbcl.org/
.SH BUGS
In case of failure an error.log file is generated.
.RE
Please report any issue at the author.
.SH AUTHOR
Yann Ics
.RE
by.cmsc@gmail.com
.SH SEE ALSO
It exists a full documentation in a form of LaTeX book to describe the executable
.B enkode
with its parameters and its developments on:
.RE
https://github.com/yannics/GSA/blob/master/gsa.pdf
